README.md, before:

# docker-raspberry-pi-tools

Collection of Docker Compose configurations and scripts tailored for efficient deployment and management of applications on Raspberry Pi.

## Pre-requisites

### Docker Installation for Raspberry Pi

To install Docker on a Raspberry Pi with a 64-bit operating system, follow the instructions provided in the official Docker documentation:

[Docker Engine Installation for Debian](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/)

## Environment Variables

To run this project, you need to define the following environment variables in an `.env` file located in the root directory of your project.


```dotenv
## Grafana

GF_SECURITY_ADMIN_USER=your_user
GF_SECURITY_ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_pass
GF_USERS_ALLOW_SIGN_UP=false

GF_PATHS_CONFIG=/etc/grafana/grafana.ini
GF_PATHS_DATA=/var/lib/grafana
GF_PATHS_HOME=/usr/share/grafana
GF_PATHS_LOGS=/var/log/grafana
GF_PATHS_PLUGINS=/var/lib/grafana/plugins
GF_PATHS_PROVISIONING=/etc/grafana/provisioning
GF_DASHBOARDS_DEFAULT_HOME_DASHBOARD_PATH=/etc/grafana/provisioning/dashboards/rpi-monitoring.json

## InfluxDB
INFLUXDB_DB=prometheus # Change influxdb db on prometheus.yml if you change this
INFLUXDB_ADMIN_USER=your_user
INFLUXDB_ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_pass

## wg-easy
# ⚠️ Change the server's hostname (clients will connect to):
WG_HOST=your.domain.com
# ⚠️ Change the Web UI Password:
PASSWORD=your_ui_pass
# 💡 This is the Pi-Hole Container's IP Address
WG_DEFAULT_DNS=default.dns
## For split tunnel use
# WG_ALLOWED_IPS=192.168.0.0/24,10.8.0.0/24
WG_PERSISTENT_KEEPALIVE=25
# Optional:
PORT=your_port
WG_PORT=your_port
# WG_DEFAULT_ADDRESS=10.8.0.x
# WG_MTU=1420
# WG_PERSISTENT_KEEPALIVE=25
# WG_PRE_UP=echo "Pre Up" > /etc/wireguard/pre-up.txt
# WG_POST_UP=echo "Post Up" > /etc/wireguard/post-up.txt
# WG_PRE_DOWN=echo "Pre Down" > /etc/wireguard/pre-down.txt
# WG_POST_DOWN=echo "Post Down" > /etc/wireguard/post-down.txt
# UI_TRAFFIC_STATS=true
# UI_CHART_TYPE=0 # (0 Charts disabled, 1 # Line chart, 2 # Area chart, 3 # Bar chart)
```

## Tools Used

This project uses several tools to provide a comprehensive monitoring and management solution for applications running on a Raspberry Pi. Below is a list of the services included in the Docker Compose configuration.

### [Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/)

Grafana is an open-source platform for monitoring and observability. It provides dashboards and visualizations for time-series data, making it easy to analyze and visualize metrics from different data sources.

### [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/)

Prometheus is an open-source systems monitoring and alerting toolkit. It is designed for reliability and scalability, collecting and storing its metrics as time series data, recording real-time metrics in a time series database built using a HTTP pull model.

### [InfluxDB](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v1.8/introduction/)

InfluxDB is an open-source time-series database designed to handle high write and query loads. It is optimized for storing time series data, including metrics and events, and provides a powerful query language for analysis.

### [Node Exporter](https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/node-exporter/)

Node Exporter is a Prometheus exporter for hardware and OS metrics exposed by *NIX kernels. It allows for the collection of various system metrics, such as CPU, memory, disk usage, and network statistics.

### [cAdvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor)

cAdvisor (Container Advisor) provides container users an understanding of the resource usage and performance characteristics of their running containers. It is a running daemon that collects, aggregates, processes, and exports information about running containers.

### [wg-easy](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy)

wg-easy is a user-friendly WireGuard VPN server dashboard, making it easy to set up and manage a WireGuard VPN server with a simple web interface. It provides configuration options and statistics for WireGuard tunnels.

## Common Problems

### Docker stats doesn't report memory usage

If you notice that cAdvisor is not reporting memory usage, you can resolve this by enabling memory cgroup in your Raspberry Pi configuration:

1. Open the `/boot/firmware/cmdline.txt` file in a text editor.
2. Add the following parameters to the end of the line:

    ```bash
    cgroup_enable=cpuset cgroup_enable=memory cgroup_memory=1
    ```

3. Save the file and reboot your Raspberry Pi.

For more details, you can refer to this [GitHub issue comment](https://github.com/docker/for-linux/issues/1112#issuecomment-699512425).

### Bandwidth issues between a WireGuard Peer and a WireGuard server

If you experience bandwidth issues between a WireGuard peer and the WireGuard server, adjusting the MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) can help improve the connection.

1. Change the client's MTU setting to 1200. This can often resolve the issue.
2. If the problem persists, you may need to find the optimal MTU for your specific network conditions. Refer to the following [gist](https://gist.github.com/nitred/f16850ca48c48c79bf422e90ee5b9d95) for detailed instructions on determining the best MTU setting.

Commit message:

:sparkles: adding pi-hole and unbound to docker compose setup

README.md, after:

# docker-raspberry-pi-tools

Collection of Docker Compose configurations and scripts tailored for efficient deployment and management of applications on Raspberry Pi.

## Pre-requisites

### Docker Installation for Raspberry Pi

To install Docker on a Raspberry Pi with a 64-bit operating system, follow the instructions provided in the official Docker documentation:

[Docker Engine Installation for Debian](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/debian/)

## Environment Variables

To run this project, you need to define the following environment variables in an `.env` file located in the root directory of your project.


```dotenv
## Grafana

GF_SECURITY_ADMIN_USER=your_user
GF_SECURITY_ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_pass
GF_USERS_ALLOW_SIGN_UP=false

GF_PATHS_CONFIG=/etc/grafana/grafana.ini
GF_PATHS_DATA=/var/lib/grafana
GF_PATHS_HOME=/usr/share/grafana
GF_PATHS_LOGS=/var/log/grafana
GF_PATHS_PLUGINS=/var/lib/grafana/plugins
GF_PATHS_PROVISIONING=/etc/grafana/provisioning
GF_DASHBOARDS_DEFAULT_HOME_DASHBOARD_PATH=/etc/grafana/provisioning/dashboards/rpi-monitoring.json

## InfluxDB
INFLUXDB_DB=prometheus # Change influxdb db on prometheus.yml if you change this
INFLUXDB_ADMIN_USER=your_user
INFLUXDB_ADMIN_PASSWORD=your_pass

## wg-easy
# ⚠️ Change the server's hostname (clients will connect to):
WG_HOST=your.domain.com
# ⚠️ Change the Web UI Password:
PASSWORD=your_ui_pass
# 💡 This is the Pi-Hole Container's IP Address
WG_DEFAULT_DNS=default.dns
## For split tunnel use
# WG_ALLOWED_IPS=192.168.0.0/24,10.8.0.0/24
WG_PERSISTENT_KEEPALIVE=25
PORT=your_port
WG_PORT=your_port
# Optional:
# WG_DEFAULT_ADDRESS=10.8.0.x
# WG_MTU=1420
# WG_PERSISTENT_KEEPALIVE=25
# WG_PRE_UP=echo "Pre Up" > /etc/wireguard/pre-up.txt
# WG_POST_UP=echo "Post Up" > /etc/wireguard/post-up.txt
# WG_PRE_DOWN=echo "Pre Down" > /etc/wireguard/pre-down.txt
# WG_POST_DOWN=echo "Post Down" > /etc/wireguard/post-down.txt
# UI_TRAFFIC_STATS=true
# UI_CHART_TYPE=0 # (0 Charts disabled, 1 # Line chart, 2 # Area chart, 3 # Bar chart)

# Pi-hole Environment Variables
TZ=your_timezone
WEBPASSWORD=your_web_password
FTLCONF_LOCAL_IPV4=your_raspberri_pi_ipv4
```

## Tools Used

This project uses several tools to provide a comprehensive monitoring and management solution for applications running on a Raspberry Pi. Below is a list of the services included in the Docker Compose configuration.

### [Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/)

Grafana is an open-source platform for monitoring and observability. It provides dashboards and visualizations for time-series data, making it easy to analyze and visualize metrics from different data sources.

### [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/)

Prometheus is an open-source systems monitoring and alerting toolkit. It is designed for reliability and scalability, collecting and storing its metrics as time series data, recording real-time metrics in a time series database built using a HTTP pull model.

### [InfluxDB](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v1.8/introduction/)

InfluxDB is an open-source time-series database designed to handle high write and query loads. It is optimized for storing time series data, including metrics and events, and provides a powerful query language for analysis.

### [Node Exporter](https://prometheus.io/docs/guides/node-exporter/)

Node Exporter is a Prometheus exporter for hardware and OS metrics exposed by *NIX kernels. It allows for the collection of various system metrics, such as CPU, memory, disk usage, and network statistics.

### [cAdvisor](https://github.com/google/cadvisor)

cAdvisor (Container Advisor) provides container users an understanding of the resource usage and performance characteristics of their running containers. It is a running daemon that collects, aggregates, processes, and exports information about running containers.

### [wg-easy](https://github.com/wg-easy/wg-easy)

wg-easy is a user-friendly WireGuard VPN server dashboard, making it easy to set up and manage a WireGuard VPN server with a simple web interface. It provides configuration options and statistics for WireGuard tunnels.

### [Pi-hole](https://github.com/pi-hole/docker-pi-hole/#running-pi-hole-docker)

Pi-hole is a network-wide ad blocker that acts as a DNS sinkhole, blocking unwanted content across your entire network. It is often used for enhancing privacy and security by blocking tracking and ads.

### [Unbound](https://github.com/MatthewVance/unbound-docker-rpi)

Unbound is a validating, recursive, caching DNS resolver. It enhances privacy by running locally on your network and ensures DNS queries are secure and accurate.

## Common Problems

### Docker stats doesn't report memory usage

If you notice that cAdvisor is not reporting memory usage, you can resolve this by enabling memory cgroup in your Raspberry Pi configuration:

1. Open the `/boot/firmware/cmdline.txt` file in a text editor.
2. Add the following parameters to the end of the line:

    ```bash
    cgroup_enable=cpuset cgroup_enable=memory cgroup_memory=1
    ```

3. Save the file and reboot your Raspberry Pi.

For more details, you can refer to this [GitHub issue comment](https://github.com/docker/for-linux/issues/1112#issuecomment-699512425).

### Bandwidth issues between a WireGuard Peer and a WireGuard server

If you experience bandwidth issues between a WireGuard peer and the WireGuard server, adjusting the MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) can help improve the connection.

1. Change the client's MTU setting to 1200. This can often resolve the issue.
2. If the problem persists, you may need to find the optimal MTU for your specific network conditions. Refer to the following [gist](https://gist.github.com/nitred/f16850ca48c48c79bf422e90ee5b9d95) for detailed instructions on determining the best MTU setting.
